README.md, before:

# sbt i18n

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ant8e/sbt-i18n.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ant8e/sbt-i18n)
[![License](http://img.shields.io/:license-apache-blue.svg)](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html)




Sbt i18n is a very simple internationalization tools, that reads resources bundles files in properties files, json, or 
[HOCON](https://github.com/lightbend/config#using-hocon-the-json-superset) format and generate Scala code. 

A configuration file like this

```hocon
en = {
  key1 = a text
  key2 ="a parametrized text {0}"
  subsection {
    key3 = some text
  }
}

```

will generate the following Scala code 

```scala
object Bundle {

  abstract class I18N {
    def key1: String
    def key2(x0: String): String
    
    abstract class Subsection {
      def key4: String
    }
    
    def subsection: Subsection
  }

  object en extends I18N {
    val key1 = """a text"""
    def key2(x0: String): String = java.text.MessageFormat.format("""a parametrized text {0}""", x0)
   
    object subsection  extends Subsection {
       val key4= """2"""
    }
}
}
     
```

The motivation here is to depart from the traditional way of doing "stringly typed" message fetching and to have a 
stronger coupling between the application code and the message translations. Having your build break when a 
translation is missing or on a faulty pattern is something you may want.   


## Usage

This plugin requires sbt 1.0.0+.

Add the following to `project/plugins.sbt:`

    addSbtPlugin("tech.ant8e" % "sbt-i18n" % "0.3")

Write a config file in `src/main/i18n/xxx.conf`.

```hocon
en = {
  msg1 = a text
  msg2 ="a parametrized text {0}"
}

fr = {
  msg1 = un texte
  msg2 ="un texte paramétré {0}"
}

``` 

And access your translations in your Scala code

```scala
val msg1 = org.example.i18n.Bundle.en.msg1
val msg2 = org.example.i18n.Bundle.en.msg2("hello")
```

The scala Bundle will be generated by default in package `org.example.i18n` this can of course be configured: 

In oder to change the output package set `i18nBundlePackageName := "org.myorganisation.i18n"` in `build.sbt`. 
  
## Input files

the plugin will parse all files within `src/main/i18n` with the [Typesafe config](https://github.com/lightbend/config) 
library and build one single config hierarchy that will be the source of the code generation. The top level keys are
assumed to be language selectors.   

###  Caveats 

The plugin will merge multiple files will no guarantee about order or conflict resolution. When two or more files defines 
the exact same configuration path it is undefined who will "win".       

## Scala Code

### Overview 
The plugin will generate one scala object named `Bundle` in the specified package.

This object contains one abstract class named `I18N` that defines the structure of each language.

For each language (or top level key), an object, named like the key, implementing the `I18N` class is generated.

Simple message will appear as `val` and parametrized messages as methods. 
 
## Parametrized messages 
 
A message that is a valid *java.text.MessageFormat* pattern will be generated as a method. 
See [MessageFormat](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/text/MessageFormat.html)
documentation for details about the supported patterns. 

During generation the plugin will infer the correct argument type from the pattern. `number` will have type `Double` 
by default and `Long` when the `integer` format style is selected. Date and time will have type `java.util.Date`. `choice` 
being a number format will lead to a `Double`.  By default (when no format is specified), the argument will be of type 
`String`.          

## Missing keys

The structure of a bundle is a merge of all the keys of all the languages. Should a key not be defined in a specific 
language, it will be generated as `??? [key] ???`.      

## Contribution policy ##

Contributions via GitHub pull requests are gladly accepted from their original author. Along with any pull requests, please state that the contribution is your original work and that you license the work to the project under the project's open source license. Whether or not you state this explicitly, by submitting any copyrighted material via pull request, email, or other means you agree to license the material under the project's open source license and warrant that you have the legal authority to do so.

## License ##

This code is open source software licensed under the [Apache 2.0 License](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html).

Commit message:

Added option to break bundle generation when no key value is provided (missing keys)

README.md, after:

# sbt i18n

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ant8e/sbt-i18n.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ant8e/sbt-i18n)
[![License](http://img.shields.io/:license-apache-blue.svg)](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html)




Sbt i18n is a very simple internationalization tools, that reads resources bundles files in properties files, json, or 
[HOCON](https://github.com/lightbend/config#using-hocon-the-json-superset) format and generate Scala code. 

A configuration file like this

```hocon
en = {
  key1 = a text
  key2 ="a parametrized text {0}"
  subsection {
    key3 = some text
  }
}

```

will generate the following Scala code 

```scala
object Bundle {

  abstract class I18N {
    def key1: String
    def key2(x0: String): String
    
    abstract class Subsection {
      def key4: String
    }
    
    def subsection: Subsection
  }

  object en extends I18N {
    val key1 = """a text"""
    def key2(x0: String): String = java.text.MessageFormat.format("""a parametrized text {0}""", x0)
   
    object subsection  extends Subsection {
       val key4= """2"""
    }
}
}
     
```

The motivation here is to depart from the traditional way of doing "stringly typed" message fetching and to have a 
stronger coupling between the application code and the message translations. Having your build break when a 
translation is missing or on a faulty pattern is something you may want.   


## Usage

This plugin requires sbt 1.0.0+.

Add the following to `project/plugins.sbt:`

    addSbtPlugin("tech.ant8e" % "sbt-i18n" % "0.3")

Write a config file in `src/main/i18n/xxx.conf`.

```hocon
en = {
  msg1 = a text
  msg2 ="a parametrized text {0}"
}

fr = {
  msg1 = un texte
  msg2 ="un texte paramétré {0}"
}

``` 

And access your translations in your Scala code

```scala
val msg1 = org.example.i18n.Bundle.en.msg1
val msg2 = org.example.i18n.Bundle.en.msg2("hello")
```

The scala Bundle will be generated by default in package `org.example.i18n` this can of course be configured: 

In oder to change the output package set `i18nBundlePackageName := "org.myorganisation.i18n"` in `build.sbt`. 
  
## Input files

the plugin will parse all files within `src/main/i18n` with the [Typesafe config](https://github.com/lightbend/config) 
library and build one single config hierarchy that will be the source of the code generation. The top level keys are
assumed to be language selectors.   

###  Caveats 

The plugin will merge multiple files will no guarantee about order or conflict resolution. When two or more files defines 
the exact same configuration path it is undefined who will "win".       

## Scala Code

### Overview 
The plugin will generate one scala object named `Bundle` in the specified package.

This object contains one abstract class named `I18N` that defines the structure of each language.

For each language (or top level key), an object, named like the key, implementing the `I18N` class is generated.

Simple message will appear as `val` and parametrized messages as methods. 
 
## Parametrized messages 
 
A message that is a valid *java.text.MessageFormat* pattern will be generated as a method. 
See [MessageFormat](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/text/MessageFormat.html)
documentation for details about the supported patterns. 

During generation the plugin will infer the correct argument type from the pattern. `number` will have type `Double` 
by default and `Long` when the `integer` format style is selected. Date and time will have type `java.util.Date`. `choice` 
being a number format will lead to a `Double`.  By default (when no format is specified), the argument will be of type 
`String`.          

## Missing keys

The structure of a bundle is a merge of all the keys of all the languages. Should a key not be defined in a specific 
language, it will be generated as `??? [key] ???`.
      
In oder to break generation on missing key set `i18nBreakOnMissingKeys := true` in `build.sbt`. 

## Contribution policy ##

Contributions via GitHub pull requests are gladly accepted from their original author. Along with any pull requests, please state that the contribution is your original work and that you license the work to the project under the project's open source license. Whether or not you state this explicitly, by submitting any copyrighted material via pull request, email, or other means you agree to license the material under the project's open source license and warrant that you have the legal authority to do so.

## License ##

This code is open source software licensed under the [Apache 2.0 License](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html).
